#summary Things we need to figure out.
#labels Featured,Phase-Design

= Concepts to Research =

== Physics & Chemistry ==

http://zebu.uoregon.edu/~probs/ - basic to advanced physics problems with solutions

== Whitespace-significant Syntax ==

http://mail.python.org/pipermail/python-list/2003-October/229146.html - mentioning Ruby's technique of using a parser flag if a token is followed by a line break

== Significant Digits & Decimal Arithmetic ==

We need to understand significant digits / significant figures.  We need a list of rules for how they work to make sure we implement it correctly.

We need to know how to do decimal-accurate arithmetic with significant digits.

See http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Significant_digits

Possibly of use: Apfloat, an arbitrary-precision arithmetic library for Java: http://www.apfloat.org/apfloat_java/

JScience - http://jscience.org/ - a Java library that does units, arbitrary-precision arithmetic, and more.  Readable code.

== Symbolic Algebra ==

We need to know how to do simple symbolic algebra with addition, subtraction, multiplication, division, and exponents.

Possibly of use:

*jscl-meditor*: Java computer algebra system.  http://jscl-meditor.sourceforge.net/

*Mathomatic*: written in C, does simple algebra.  Console-based interface.  May be a useful model to follow for the interactive BCIS interpreter.  Not a programming language, but generates code in C and Java.  http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mathomatic

*Sympy*: Python computer algebra system designed to be simple - http://code.google.com/p/sympy/

A page on how to do unit calculations in a computer algebra system: http://www.math.montana.edu/frankw/ccp/units/cas/body.htm

== Inferred Calculations ==

We need to know how to figure out how to automatically calculate something given a set of known values and algebraic relationships.  Maybe this is as simple as a shortest-path search through a graph of relationships, or maybe it requires some logic programming.
 